Did y'all share candidly your opinions with each other?
Well, probably not completely, but we had a pretty good
working relationship, and yeah, we talked quite a bit.
My secretary in those days was Hillary Gaines, and she had been secretary for Ed Cooper for some time, and she was truly outstanding.
She kept me out of lots of trouble, and so that was a real,
plus having her and she certainly knew what was going on and she certainly had a good relationship with Nelda.
And so I knew, I feel that I knew what was going on.
There is a gigantic mystery there, but I'll never find the answer to it.
But I resigned for two reasons.
from the position.
First of all, when I was hired to go up there, I handled a lot of the dean of student type responsibilities, because we had Dean Hennigan, and he had long passed the understanding of the young people, and I think Dr. Williams understood that, knew that, and was just sitting around waiting to make a change.
And so he needed somebody in the office who could help with those student-oriented type problems.
And so when I went up there in 72, I worked with student government, I worked with student leaders, and Kent Caperton, who was not a student at that, and Kent was assistant, staff assistant in the president's office when I went up there.
And but of course he was at the age of the students or just a little beyond.
And so we worked with students and tried to resolve some of the problems that normally would be handled by a dean of students or vice president of students.
And then I was on the search committee for vice president when Dean Hennigan retired.
And then we brought
John Colas in, in 73, I believe.
I believe so.
I think so.
And so then the next year, I worked with John, and as he got his operation going, and I worked pretty closely with him on, on things.
And then, when he was on board and had things, his staff,
One of them was in my wife, I mean, he hired Carolyn right away.
And so the only thing left of the job
was the secretary to the academic council, which I thoroughly enjoyed, and then just odd jobs around the office.
And certainly the part of the job I enjoyed was working with the students.
And so I went in to see Dr. Williams in the fall of that year and told him that I thought that it was time for me to move on.
And he agreed.
And so I stepped down January of
and Roger Miller, who I had hired to come in to replace Kent, then took over.
He could handle all of the things that I
could have handled for that job and didn't really like handling football weekends and all that stuff that I really never liked but had to do as part of the job.
And so that's the reason that I resigned.
But another reason was Dr. Williams got negative about me for some reason that I have never figured out.
And I'll tell you, I don't know, maybe it was serious, I don't know.
I didn't stay around to find out.
Because I had a very nice relationship with him after I left the office and after I get past this negative I'll come back to that.
But I took a trip with Clyde Freeman one time.
We went in the King Air and we went up to visit Tom Parsons and the cadets at Fort Riley.
Tom Parsons and I got along great.
We were good buddies and he and I joked and raised all kinds of things together.
I got off that airplane and I said something to Tom Parsons and I thought, oops, Clyde Freeman heard that.
Oh, I shouldn't have said that.
And very soon after that, Dr. Williams got rather cold towards me.
I cannot for the life of me remember what it was I said, but I just, I would bet you anything that Clyde went back and told Jack Williams something that I'd said that Jack Williams did not like.
I'm shaking my head.
I have no idea, but I wouldn't be surprised.
I have no idea.
I've asked Nelda about it, and she can't recall anything, or if she does, she won't tell me.
Based on your work in that office, what did you come to feel were the guidelines that Dr. Williams expected?
What did he expect out of his staff?
Oh, he expected you to do your own thing, but to do it competently.
I had a lot of freedom.
Did he expect people to be candid with him?
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
I mean, that's one of the real failings on this campus is too many people say what they want, what you think they want to hear, and no, no.
I think he wanted it, and there's only one time that I
I might should have pulled some punches or something, but maybe I did.
I've really forgotten.
But you remember we had the old radical come and talk?
Oh, he was furious about that.
He was furious.
Who was it?
Radical?
Yeah.
Skona invited him, and the board members raised Cain, and Jack Williams asked them to uninvite him.
And so then a student group on campus invited him.
Oh, what's his name?
Well, we'll think about it.
Yes.
I can almost say it, but it was the
from the 60s and might have been even Kunzler, Kunzler, Kunzler, Kunzler, something like that.
Something like that.
Yeah, yeah.
And he got furious and just ran in the face mad at one of the students, which I really didn't.
I mean, he was just a poor innocent kid not knowing
But no, I think we were all fairly candid with him.
Describe a typical day routine for him.
What time did he get there?
What happened when and how?
He was there fairly early in the morning.
I don't think he got there before 8, but I don't think so.
But that's not the part that impressed me.
He was there.
He was in meetings, meetings, meetings, meetings.
But then he'd load up that briefcase and go home.
He did a lot of work at the office at the house.
And then when he'd come in in the morning, he'd open that briefcase and there'd be tape after tape after tape and stack correspondence that he'd dump on Nelda's desk.
And so he worked all the time, worked a lot at home.
And am I correct that most of the mail was turned around and the answer was out in 24 hours?
Oh, yes, yes, yes.
He reacted to correspondence immediately.
And what did he enjoy most?
What were his pleasures?
Well, outside the office, golf, of course.
And I'm sure you've heard the story or read the letter from the handball player.
Have you heard that story?
Well, I was in the office one day.
He got this letter.
from somebody who enjoyed handball, and it went on and on about all the money we were spending on the golf course.
And it finished up by saying, Dr. Williams, I truly do wish that you were a handball player.
Something like that.
office.
What caused him to smile most?
Oh, I think his interaction with students.
He did enjoy being around students.
He said often that
If you don't love the students, you don't, you don't, you should not be at a university.
And I think he really believed that and lived that.
So he enjoyed that.
It frustrated him to interact with faculty.
I remember part of my responsibility is to set up these meetings, monthly meetings, on Thursday.
Every Thursday we'd meet with a student group.
Maybe the first Thursday of the month, we'd meet with student groups.
Second Thursday of the month, we'd meet with the directors, Tease and all those.
Jarvis was one of them.
Another Thursday, we'd meet with faculty.
Another Thursday, we'd meet with, I don't remember what.
So we'd bring the kids in and they're all, and they've got this, they want to talk about this, and then bring the directors in and they'd have serious financial problems and this and that.
Then we'd bring the, oh, the one was the deans.
You would have been there with that group, the deans and the vice presidents, and talk about the academic problem that brought the faculty in.
All they wanted to talk about was parking.
It's the only thing they wanted to talk about.
They bitched about parking.
We quit having the meetings.
He got so frustrated over the first couple of meetings with the faculty that he just quit having them.
Who wrote his speeches?
That's easy.
He did.
And were they prepared completely?
Oh, yes.
Verbatim in advance?
Or did he work with just notes?
No, I think they were fairly complete, but I really don't remember.
I know he carried them in a loose leaf binder and I know they were not, he certainly didn't type them out and read them if that's what you mean, no.
But they were extensive notes and his speeches were delightful.
Do you remember being present or do you remember any thoughts about what
were for him some of the most enjoyable speeches or presentations that he made?
Do you remember some where you thought that he really?
No, no.
I was at a couple that I know he didn't enjoy.
Such as?
There was some controversy over one of the board members, the black board member from Houston, and he was at a faculty meeting.
And he stood in front of the faculty and he said, what was the board member's name, do you remember?
No.
And he said that Dr. Robinson, it's close but that's not the name, is the most perceptive member of the Board of Regents
And I have yet to praise the board.
Everybody I talked to thought that he had just complimented the Board of Regents and the board member.
And he had not.
For, I'm asking your opinion here.
The board members that Dr. Williams worked with, who do you think were his favorites and otherwise?
I know his least favorite, his least, I don't have to think for a name, but the building that's at an angle over here, Dooley Bell.
Dooley Bell drove him up the wall.
Dooley Bell, well this of course is leaving out his real enemy on the board, Peyton McKnight, but Dooley was just a nuisance.
And Dooley, at least Dr. Williams thought Dooley would come up here and just snoop around campus and wander in, talk to people who didn't know who he was, and then go harass Dr. Williams about it.
Have you heard those stories?
I don't know if he did or he didn't, but Dr. Williams thought he did.
His favorite board members, I think he got along well with Ford Albritton and the chairman of the board.
From Mineral Well.
Clyde Wells.
I thought they worked together well.
And see, the McKnight thing started when the board went to Tennessee to interview Dr. Williams.
And McKnight couldn't go because he had a legal business commitment that he couldn't undo.
Is that right?
And they agreed, so this is Fort, my source is Fort Albritton, that they, after interviewing Dr. Williams, eight of the board members agreed that this is it.
Really?
McKnight was furious that they dared make a decision without him.
Is that right?
Yeah.
And what did Dr. Williams do to unwind, to relax?
Goff, I think.
He would occasionally just call somebody and go out and shoot a round of Goff.
Who do you think he listened to most closely outside the office?
Who on the campus or anywhere else?
No, I think Dr. Calhoun certainly.
and Dr. Calhoun, and I think he leaned heavily on Clyde Freeman for anything to do with financial situation, but I think
At least from my perspective, Dr. Calhoun was, he was close, confident.
Did you ever go to Austin to any legislative hearing or anything like that with him?
No.
Okay, so you didn't.
In fact, you mentioned this young man, Kent Caperton.
I believe I didn't know who he was.
Describe him and what he did at the office.
Kent, of course, was the student body president in the early 70s.
He was the president at the time Williams was inaugurated.
That's right.
He spoke for the students and I spoke for the faculty.
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
I remember now.
But Kent was a bright young man, student body president, and then went off to Austin to the
The Lyndon Johnson School over there, didn't he?
And didn't like it.
And so then he wanted to quit, and he did quit, and then Dr. Williams hired him back as staff assistant in the office.
And so then he was back on campus.
I didn't see him much.
I had known him when he was a student, a little bit I guess, but I'm not remembering why.
Let's see.
He must have been about class of 70 then.
So I guess I just, I don't know.
I believe it would be 71.
71.
Yeah, I believe you're right.
Yes, yes.
Because that was the fall.
The fall, the inauguration was in the fall.
Yeah.
So 71.
And then I worked with him for about a year, I guess, when he was staff assistant.
Then he went off to law school.
All right.
When he was staff assistant, what did he do?
Oh, he did all kinds of things.
little odd jobs that Dr. Williams wanted done, and he'd run errands around campus.
He'd drive Dr. Williams' car and get it washed.
He'd do all kinds of little things like that, as well as more important things that he would work with the students and some things.
Did you all think he had a high capability?
Oh yes.
No, no.
It was really fun working with him.
He was a nice young man.
Now then, there is the story that I'm sure you've got there somewhere about the $5,000 check to the student body.
If you don't, you need it.
I don't remember that one.
When Dr. Williams became the president,
He and Tiger and Wyse were over at the house, Tiger being Teague, Tiger Teague, and the students marched on the home.
Do you remember that?
To welcome them.
Well, those were the days when students were marching on president's homes all over the country.
And so this made the newspapers.
And somebody out there, not an Aggie, I don't think an Aggie, decided that was just great.
Wrote a check out for $5,000 and sent it to Dr. Williams and told him to spend it on the students.
So Dr. Williams thanked him, turned around and wrote a memo to Kent.
I said, Kent, I got $5,000.
I want the student government to tell me how they want to spend.
Student government went through two months of hell, arguing about spending it here.
So, Kent wrote a letter back to Dr. Williams and said, Dr. Williams, the student government has decided we want the money spent for this purpose.
And, sir, if you get another check for $5,000, please decide yourself how to spend it.
See, now that's a good anecdote.
That's a good one.
You hadn't heard that.
No, I don't believe that last part.
I don't believe I had heard.
What have we not covered about Dr. Williams?
Because, see, we don't...
We don't have enough in this current domain, not enough people know about him and his importance.
Well, two somewhat trivial things.
The first two things he did when he came on the job, you know what they were?
Doesn't mean a bell.
First, he shut off the whistle that blew at 8 o'clock, 12 o'clock, 1 o'clock, and 5 o'clock.
Number two, he fired Andy Suttle.
The first two things he did on the job.
Seidel was the vice president for research.
Right.
And there was probably not a single person on the campus who would not applaud that decision.
As far as you're aware, why did he cut off the whistle?
Oh, it just wasn't appropriate for a university campus.
What I had heard is some individual, some lady, or some faculty member complained that it was like being a... Is that right?
Yeah.
It was like a factory.
I had not heard that.
Now, on the other hand, there were
families who lived within sounding distance of the campus who used that as a kind of an alarm clock for their children.
When the whistle blows, it's time for you to get home, wash your face and hands, and get ready for supper.
But it was a new thing.
What was the effect of Dr. Williams on this institution?
Well, I think great.
He was the president that transitioned us from General Rutter, which I think we needed transition.
General Rutter had gotten us through the times that a general officer could carry us through, and then it was time to break the mold.
We wanted the outside world to perceive us as a university, not as an old military school that was still struggling.
And Dr. Williams was a true scholar.
He had all the right credentials, and he had the background, the academic background, the knowledge of what a university was all about, and knew what was important.
And I think he has, he set the stage.
He built the foundation for what has come since.
That's what I tell people, that academically he laid the foundation.
If you reverse them chronologically, neither one would have done well.
No, no, no, no.
Oh, no, they would have run Dr. Williams out of town, as they would have
David Morgan or.
Did you ever hear him talk about his military experiences?
No, no, no.
He was extremely.
Only.
But he had a very, very splendid admirable record in the Pacific and so on.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Did y'all, those of you in the office, did y'all work very much with Mrs. Williams?
Only Nelda, only Nelda.
I didn't work with her at all.
Nelda worked with her and all the functions and things were worked out between Nelda and Mrs. Williams and the people who worked over in the home.
All right, I'm not going to ask the negative on this now.
Of the deans, for those of you and Dr. Williams, who do you think were the outstanding deans of that time?
Oh, who were they?
Let's see, I knew them all in those days.
Hubert, Maxwell, Prescott, Kunkel, Shelton.
No, Shelton came on later.
He comes in during.
Yeah, he comes in during, but Mack's next door neighbor was the dean in those days.
Oh, Slick Al Price.
Al Price, yeah.
But the deans, I thought that
that he worked well with most of the deans.
I know that Maxwell drove him crazy, just being too subservient.
Maxwell was a very subservient type person to the president, and I don't think Dr. Williams liked that.
At least he indicated to me that some things had led me to believe he didn't get care for that, but he seemed to get along fine with Maxwell.
He just gave me comments.
As a group, it was a comparatively capable.
Yes, they were and all worked together, as far as I could tell, reasonably well.
And what about Coldus?
I think that they worked very well together.
Of course, Dr. Williams chose him.
And what I have always been amused at is Dr. Williams had a committee looking for that individual, and there was a guy named Brian who the students on the committee fell in love with.
And they were adamant that they had, that Dr. Williams had to choose Bryant.
And when Dr. Williams chose Coltis, they were shocked.
They were appalled.
And it took Coltis about one day or two to win them over, but one was Barb Sears.
And of course, they would deny that to this day.
They would deny that because they all fell in love with Coltis after that.
How did he locate?
How did he identify a coldest?
Do you know?
He was at East Texas State.
Yes.
And I don't know if he knew him before all this started or not.
But he, we had a number of applications come in.
And I read through all the applications and this guy, Brian, had impressive credentials.
So whether Dr. Williams knew about him at East Texas, is that where he was, or whether he'd heard about him over the years or what, I don't know.
But there was no question who the vice president for students was going to be because he made up his mind.
He listened to everybody, and then he said it's going to be this way, and then he hired him.
This young lady you mentioned, Barbara Sears, describe her and identify her.
She was a fireball.
Of course, there were not many women around in those days, and she was a very, very bright, very energetic, very active young lady.
I saw her just last year.
She came back to campus for something.
Have you seen her since those days?
I saw her.
That same day?
Yeah.
And she was a very active student.
She's the first student body officer female.
Is that right?
She was the secretary.
Okay.
What do you know about her father?
Nothing.
A truly, truly, truly world-class plant geneticist.
Oh, really?
He probably deserves credit for increasing the world's production of wheat by
Twenty, thirty percent.
Is that right?
At Missouri.
Oh, great, great, great.
He died while I was there.
Is that right?
But Ernie Sears, everybody.
Really?
Respectfully, deeply, deeply, deeply.
Is that right?
So she came.
Now, among things I've never asked her that I sometime got to, what led her to come down here?
Because she, if I'm not mistaken, she's a biochemist today.
I believe she ended up in biochemist.
I mean, a plant geneticist.
I think she came down here to do similar work to what he had been doing.
I see.
Let's see.
Were you there when Dr. Williams appointed Bob Walker to be the development?
If so, how did he?
I don't remember.
Who was before Bob?
Dorsey McCrory.
Oh, no.
Then Bob was already there by the time I got there.
Because we used to chuckle that McCrory took every contribution that anybody slid under the door or threw over the transom.
Well, what is your, looking back, what is your evaluation of the quality of the appointments that Dr. Williams made?
Oh, I thought they were very good.
Let's see.
There were some of them.
Of course, Colas.
Calhoun.
Walker.
But what was Calhoun before?
Was he the dean?
He was over in the system.
Was that where he was?
Okay.
He had been in the Kennedy administration.
He had gone to Washington.
He'd been dean of engineering.
Then he came back and he was at the system level as a kind of a vice chancellor or something or other for engineering, but it was kind of a nebulous.
Okay, yeah.
And so he made him an academic vice president then.
It must have been very shortly after he got there because I just wasn't aware of when this transition was.
was there, I think it was, he was the academic vice president briefly.
No, Byers.
I mean, Horace Byers.
Byers, yes.
I see.
He was there, he was, when Williams came in, Byers was the academic vice president.
Briefly, and he retired, and as far as I know it was congenial.
I see.
All right, one of the, you mentioned all of those letters Dr. Williams wrote.
Also, to me, one of his special features was writing little notes to people.
How did he, did anybody give him suggestions of who needed a pat on the back or were those all self-generated?
Best I can tell, they were all self-generated.
I don't know.